Contact

+2 01090112694 (Mobile)
ahmed.abulkhair@hotmail.com

www.linkedin.com/in/aaabulkhair
(LinkedIn)
aaabulkhair.github.io/Analixa/
(Personal)

Top Skills

GenAI

Coaching

Statistical Modeling

Certifications

Python for Everybody Specialization

Sequence Models

Using Databases with Python

Convolutional Neural Networks in
TensorFlow

Ahmed Abulkhair

Senior Data Scientist @ ALX Africa | Data Science Mentor | Kaggle
Expert
Cairo, Egypt

Summary

As a Senior Data Scientist at ALX Africa, I apply my expertise in

machine learning, Python, deep learning, and time series analysis

to deliver data-driven solutions that solve complex problems and

generate actionable insights from vast amounts of data. I have

implemented several projects that enhance the performance,

scalability, and reliability of the company's web scraping and

price comparison platform, such as optimizing the data pipeline,

developing a dynamic pricing model, and creating a recommendation

system.

I have a strong educational background in data science and

Artificial Intelligence

engineering, with a diploma from the Information Technology

Honors-Awards

Engineering, Menoufiya University, Egypt. I have also completed

Institute (ITI) and a bachelor's degree from the Faculty of

Transporter Robot Competition
organized by FEE ROBOTICS
CLUB.

two nanodegrees from Udacity in Deep Learning and Data Analysis,

where I learned and applied the latest techniques and tools in

the field. Additionally, I share my knowledge and passion for data

science by mentoring early-career data scientists as part of the

KaggleX BIPOC Mentorship Program and teaching data science

courses as a teaching assistant at ITI. My goal is to positively impact

the world by leveraging data and innovation.

Experience

alx_africa 
Senior Data Scientist
November 2024 - Present (9 months)

Arab ShipBroker
Consultant Data Scientist 
July 2025 - Present (1 month)
Remote

Page 1 of 5

 
 
 
ShopBrain
2 years 5 months

Lead Data Scientist
February 2024 - Present (1 year 6 months)

Senior Data Scientist
March 2023 - February 2024 (1 year)

Information Technology Institute (ITI)
Teaching Assistant
July 2020 - July 2024 (4 years 1 month)
Cairo, Egypt

Data Science track supervisor with the following responsibilities:

• Design and teach some data science courses.

• Mentoring the students of the track.

• Design the full curriculum for the track. 

• Continually enrich the content with the state of the art technologies.

• Mentoring the graduation projects in cooperation with business partners.

Kaggle
KaggleX BIPOC Mentor
July 2023 - January 2024 (7 months)

As a Mentor, my responsibilities include:

- Guiding early-career data scientists in their professional development.

- Sharing expertise gained from 5+ years of experience in Data Science,

Artificial Intelligence, or Machine Learning.

- Assisting mentees in setting goals and working on projects to enhance their

skills and portfolios.

- Participating in weekly check-ins with mentees.

- Engaging with the KaggleX community and contributing to discussions

Jumia Group
Senior Data Scientist
March 2022 - March 2023 (1 year 1 month)

Udacity
Deep Learning Session Lead
September 2021 - March 2022 (7 months)

Upwork

Page 2 of 5

 
 
 
Data Scientist
June 2020 - March 2022 (1 year 10 months)
Egypt

Top-Rated Data Scientist and Machine Learning Engineer with 100% of Job

Success Score (JSS) and achievements in the following areas:

• Customer Segmentation for telecom and retail companies.

• Face Authentication, GANs, and Object detection.

• Anomaly Detection for medical data.

• Explainable Machine Learning models for existing systems.

• Creating and Designing data science and machine learning courses.

• Training and consultation.

BBI
Data Scientist
July 2019 - July 2020 (1 year 1 month)

In BBI I participate in many projects such as: 

• Building chatbots for many industries such as telecom and banking.

• Using machine learning-based recommendations models for grouping the

telecom subscribers; hence, recommend the appropriate offers. 

• Object detection, text mining and OCR. 

• Develop an AI-driven analytics tool that serves many domains and

industries. 

• Audience targeting for telecom offers (use clustering, analysis with

segmentation, user-based recommendation, and prediction models).

• Campaign optimization (use NN, autonomous AI).

Information Technology Institute (ITI)
Instructor
March 2020 - March 2020 (1 month)
Smart Village, Egypt

I worked as a Python Instructor for Data Management track, Information

Technology Institute, Smart Village. Throughout the course, I tried to deliver

some important Python concepts like:

• Introduction to Python, variables, data containers and data transformation

using pandas.

• Data Importing, CSV, Excel, JSON, XML and APIs.

• Working with Databases ( ORM ).

Page 3 of 5

 
 
 
• Object-oriented programming in Python.

• Command Line Automation and Scripting in Python.

• Code profiling and Pythonic code.

Noon Academy
Freelance Physics Teacher
January 2017 - September 2018 (1 year 9 months)

Noon Academy is an E-learning company that directs its effort to secondary

stage students especially. I work as a Freelance Physics Teacher for Saudi-

Arabian students at secondary stage and as a science teacher for middle

stage students.

Masrfandy Newspaper
Editor 
May 2017 - December 2017 (8 months)

Masrfandy is a starting online newspaper. Now I'm working as an Editor at

Technology and Science Page and cover all news related to Technology and

Science.

Arab Electric for Modern Techniques.
Trainee
August 2016 - September 2016 (2 months)
Portsaid Governorate, Egypt.

The company is dealing with implementing Electric Constructions on

the industrial scale. My training period was in Persil factory in Portsaid for

constructing a new Production Line.

● One of the most useful outcomes of that training is that "Safety

standards come first".

●Project Management

Ministry Of Housing, Utilities & Urban Development.
Trainee
July 2016 - August 2016 (2 months)
Cairo Governorate, Egypt

Ministry of Housing and Construction is in charge of building new urban

communities, constructing infrastructure and housing.

● Learn how to carefully read an Electric Design for a specific facility

and extract all data required for implementing that design.

● Supervise a group of electricians to implement a design and how to

deal with site problems that may face implementation of design.

Page 4 of 5

 
 
 
Education

Information Technology Institute (ITI)

Diploma, Data Science and Big Data Analytics · (2018 - 2019)

Faculty of Engineering, Menoufiya University, Egypt

Bachelor's degree, Electrical Power Engineering and Electric

Machines · (2012 - 2017)

Udacity

Deep Learning Nanodegree, Deep Learning · (2021 - 2021)

Udacity

Data Analyst for Enterprise Nanodegree, Data Analysis · (2018 - 2019)

Page 5 of 5

 
 
 

